README.md, before:

# Semantic Kernel Chat Function App + Angular 🚀

A streaming chat function app demonstrating real-time AI conversations using Azure OpenAI, Semantic Kernel, and Angular.

## Dev Container / Codespaces

[![Open in Dev Container](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?style=for-the-badge&label=Dev%20Container&message=Open&color=2266ee&logo=visualstudiocode)](https://vscode.dev/redirect?url=vscode://ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers/cloneInVolume?url=https://github.com/JayChase/semantic-kernel-function-app)

...then follow the [Dev container quick start](#dev-container-quick-start).

## Table of Contents

-   [Architecture](#architecture)

-   [Dev container quick start](#dev-container-quick-start)
-   [Local development](#local-development)
-   [Working with the code](#Working-with-the-code)
-   [Features](#features)
-   [Services & resources](#services--resources)
-   [Streaming implementation details](#streaming-implementation-details)
-   [Security & networking](#security--networking)

## Architecture

![infra](./docs/semantic-kernel-function-app-architecture.svg)

## Dev Container Quick Start

1. Use the badge above (VS Code Dev Containers) OR create a Codespace.
2. Wait for the container build (installs Node, azd, Azure CLI, Functions Core Tools, Angular CLI, .NET 9).
3. Sign in & provision:

    ```bash
    azd auth login
    azd up
    ```

4. After deployment services has finished click on the ngWeb link

![azd up completed](./docs/azd-up-result.png)

5. Login the **Azure CLI**

```bash
az login --tenant $AZURE_TENANT_ID
```

6. Copy and run the az command from the UI and run it in the terminal to get the func app key. Paste the key into the UI and start chatting.

![UI](./docs/ui.png)

## Local development

### Prerequisites

Core (all scenarios):

-   Azure subscription with access to Azure OpenAI (model: `gpt-4o-mini`).

-   Git.

Local machine (when NOT using the dev container):

-   Node.js 22 LTS + npm (Angular 19 + SSR build).
-   .NET 9 SDK (isolated Functions runtime).
-   Azure Functions Core Tools v4 (for `func start`).
-   Azure CLI (latest)
-   Azure Developer CLI (azd).
-   Azurite (optional)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/JayChase/semantic-kernel-function-app.git
cd semantic-kernel-function-app
azd auth login
azd up
```

Answers required during `azd up`:

-   Environment name (used to derive unique resource names)
-   Subscription
-   Primary location (location for the resource group and all resources)
-   OpenAI location (the location to deploy the cognitive services to)

## Features

-   .NET 9 isolated Azure Functions with middleware & DI.
-   Semantic Kernel + Microsoft.Extensions.AI abstraction for chat.
-   Streaming responses (SSE style) for low‑latency token display.
-   Angular SSR (Node 22 LTS) hosted on App Service.
-   Automated infra: AVM Bicep modules (App Service, Function, Storage, VNet, Private Endpoints, Azure OpenAI, Monitoring, Managed Identity).
-   User Assigned Managed Identity for Function deployment & data plane auth.
-   Strict Storage access (shared key disabled + network ACL + VNet rules).
-   Private endpoints for Azure OpenAI & Storage.
-   Application Insights + Log Analytics dashboard.

## Services & Resources

| Logical           | Azure Resource                           | Notes                                                                         |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Angular Front End | App Service (Linux, B1)                  | Runs Node 22 SSR command line `node /home/site/wwwroot/server/server.mjs`     |
| Chat API          | Azure Functions (Flex Consumption FC1)   | .NET 9 isolated, streaming chat endpoint `/api/chat`                          |
| AI                | Azure OpenAI (S0)                        | Deployment of `gpt-4o-mini` (capacity 15) with public network access disabled |
| Identity          | User Assigned Managed Identity           | Attached to Function for Storage + OpenAI RBAC                                |
| Storage           | Storage Account (LRS)                    | Blob container for Function deployment, network restricted                    |
| Networking        | VNet + subnets + Private Endpoints       | For Storage + Azure OpenAI private ingress                                    |
| Monitoring        | App Insights + Log Analytics + Dashboard | Provided via AVM monitoring pattern module                                    |

## Working with the code

1. Run `azd up` so the open Azure OpenAI service is available.
2. Start azurite **ctrl + shift + p** then **Azurite: start**
3. Start debugging the function app **F5**
4. Run the Angaul app:

```bash
cd ng-web
ng s --ssl --host
```

ℹ️ use --host so you can open https://localhost:4200 in your local browser.

### Accessing Azure OpenAI from your local machine

The Azure OpenAI resource provisioned by `azd up` has **public network access disabled** and is reachable only through its private endpoint inside the VNet. If you run the **Function locally** (so the call to Azure OpenAI originates from your machine) you can temporarily enable full public network access or enable public access for your current IP in the portal

## Streaming Implementation Details

-   The function uses proper Server-Sent Events (SSE) framing, setting `Content-Type: text/event-stream`. Each message is sent as a `data:` field, followed by two newlines. The stream is terminated with a final `event: done`.
-   Uses `IChatClient.GetStreamingResponseAsync` from Microsoft.Extensions.AI (Semantic Kernel integration) with optional future hook for tool/function calling (`FunctionChoiceBehavior.Auto()`).
-   SSE reconnection/backpressure handled client side (not implemented here yet—consider exponential backoff & abort controller).

## Security & Networking

-   Azure OpenAI `publicNetworkAccess: Disabled`; access only via private endpoint + RBAC.
-   Storage account shared key disabled; Function deploy uses user-assigned identity + blob container deployment method.
-   VNet integration applied to Function (subnet injection) + private endpoints for OpenAI & Storage.
-   CORS on Function allows portal + web app hostname only (see `siteConfig.cors`).
-   Secrets avoided in source; identity & RBAC preferred. (OpenAI key parameter exists but not used in runtime binding—future fallback.)

## Contributing

PRs welcome. Validate formatting & run `azd package --all` before submitting.

## License

See [LICENSE](./LICENSE).

---

Generated with reference to project source, infrastructure templates & azd best practices.

[PR for Awesome AZD contribution](https://github.com/Azure/awesome-azd/pull/643)

Commit message:

Added install Angular cli instructions Fixes #3

README.md, after:

# Semantic Kernel Chat Function App + Angular 🚀

A streaming chat function app demonstrating real-time AI conversations using Azure OpenAI, Semantic Kernel, and Angular.

## Dev Container / Codespaces

[![Open in Dev Container](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?style=for-the-badge&label=Dev%20Container&message=Open&color=2266ee&logo=visualstudiocode)](https://vscode.dev/redirect?url=vscode://ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers/cloneInVolume?url=https://github.com/JayChase/semantic-kernel-function-app)

...then follow the [Dev container quick start](#dev-container-quick-start).

## Table of Contents

-   [Architecture](#architecture)

-   [Dev container quick start](#dev-container-quick-start)
-   [Local development](#local-development)
-   [Working with the code](#Working-with-the-code)
-   [Features](#features)
-   [Services & resources](#services--resources)
-   [Streaming implementation details](#streaming-implementation-details)
-   [Security & networking](#security--networking)

## Architecture

![infra](./docs/semantic-kernel-function-app-architecture.svg)

## Dev Container Quick Start

1. Use the badge above (VS Code Dev Containers) OR create a Codespace.
2. Wait for the container build (installs Node, azd, Azure CLI, Functions Core Tools, Angular CLI, .NET 9).
3. Sign in & provision:

    ```bash
    azd auth login
    azd up
    ```

4. After deployment services has finished click on the ngWeb link

![azd up completed](./docs/azd-up-result.png)

5. Login the **Azure CLI**

```bash
az login --tenant $AZURE_TENANT_ID
```

6. Copy and run the az command from the UI and run it in the terminal to get the func app key. Paste the key into the UI and start chatting.

![UI](./docs/ui.png)

## Local development

### Prerequisites

Core (all scenarios):

-   Azure subscription with access to Azure OpenAI (model: `gpt-4o-mini`).

-   Git.

Local machine (when NOT using the dev container):

-   Node.js 22 LTS + npm (Angular 19 + SSR build).
-   .NET 9 SDK (isolated Functions runtime).
-   Azure Functions Core Tools v4 (for `func start`).
-   Azure CLI (latest)
-   Azure Developer CLI (azd).
-   Azurite (optional)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/JayChase/semantic-kernel-function-app.git
cd semantic-kernel-function-app
azd auth login
azd up
```

Answers required during `azd up`:

-   Environment name (used to derive unique resource names)
-   Subscription
-   Primary location (location for the resource group and all resources)
-   OpenAI location (the location to deploy the cognitive services to)

## Features

-   .NET 9 isolated Azure Functions with middleware & DI.
-   Semantic Kernel + Microsoft.Extensions.AI abstraction for chat.
-   Streaming responses (SSE style) for low‑latency token display.
-   Angular SSR (Node 22 LTS) hosted on App Service.
-   Automated infra: AVM Bicep modules (App Service, Function, Storage, VNet, Private Endpoints, Azure OpenAI, Monitoring, Managed Identity).
-   User Assigned Managed Identity for Function deployment & data plane auth.
-   Strict Storage access (shared key disabled + network ACL + VNet rules).
-   Private endpoints for Azure OpenAI & Storage.
-   Application Insights + Log Analytics dashboard.

## Services & Resources

| Logical           | Azure Resource                           | Notes                                                                         |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Angular Front End | App Service (Linux, B1)                  | Runs Node 22 SSR command line `node /home/site/wwwroot/server/server.mjs`     |
| Chat API          | Azure Functions (Flex Consumption FC1)   | .NET 9 isolated, streaming chat endpoint `/api/chat`                          |
| AI                | Azure OpenAI (S0)                        | Deployment of `gpt-4o-mini` (capacity 15) with public network access disabled |
| Identity          | User Assigned Managed Identity           | Attached to Function for Storage + OpenAI RBAC                                |
| Storage           | Storage Account (LRS)                    | Blob container for Function deployment, network restricted                    |
| Networking        | VNet + subnets + Private Endpoints       | For Storage + Azure OpenAI private ingress                                    |
| Monitoring        | App Insights + Log Analytics + Dashboard | Provided via AVM monitoring pattern module                                    |

## Working with the code

1. Run `azd up` so the open Azure OpenAI service is available.
2. Start azurite **ctrl + shift + p** then **Azurite: start**
3. Start debugging the function app **F5**
4. Run the Angular app:

```bash
cd ng-web
ng s --ssl --host
```

ℹ️ if you are running locall ensure that the [Angular CLI](https://angular.dev/tools/cli#) is installed `npm install -g @angular/cli`

ℹ️ use --host so you can open https://localhost:4200 in your local browser.

### Accessing Azure OpenAI from your local machine

The Azure OpenAI resource provisioned by `azd up` has **public network access disabled** and is reachable only through its private endpoint inside the VNet. If you run the **Function locally** (so the call to Azure OpenAI originates from your machine) you can temporarily enable full public network access or enable public access for your current IP in the portal

## Streaming Implementation Details

-   The function uses proper Server-Sent Events (SSE) framing, setting `Content-Type: text/event-stream`. Each message is sent as a `data:` field, followed by two newlines. The stream is terminated with a final `event: done`.
-   Uses `IChatClient.GetStreamingResponseAsync` from Microsoft.Extensions.AI (Semantic Kernel integration) with optional future hook for tool/function calling (`FunctionChoiceBehavior.Auto()`).
-   SSE reconnection/backpressure handled client side (not implemented here yet—consider exponential backoff & abort controller).

## Security & Networking

-   Azure OpenAI `publicNetworkAccess: Disabled`; access only via private endpoint + RBAC.
-   Storage account shared key disabled; Function deploy uses user-assigned identity + blob container deployment method.
-   VNet integration applied to Function (subnet injection) + private endpoints for OpenAI & Storage.
-   CORS on Function allows portal + web app hostname only (see `siteConfig.cors`).
-   Secrets avoided in source; identity & RBAC preferred. (OpenAI key parameter exists but not used in runtime binding—future fallback.)

## Contributing

PRs welcome. Validate formatting & run `azd package --all` before submitting.

## License

See [LICENSE](./LICENSE).

---

Generated with reference to project source, infrastructure templates & azd best practices.

[PR for Awesome AZD contribution](https://github.com/Azure/awesome-azd/pull/643)
